# powershell
I was recently asked by a colleague which programming language do I use the most or recommend if one were to learn how to program. My immediate answer was Python, PHP, or JavaScript! But those willl only help you if you're focusing on application development. This conversation centered around Help Desk and tier one support. I quickly recanted, stating: BASH/POWERSHELL!!!! Why?? Task automation.My last class at Alfred State before taking a hiatus was Network Administration. By far the BEST class EVER! I enjoyed the lectures and the labs. The most challenging task I faced was not routing or configuration, it was team dynamics. You have to lead by example and hold people accountable. The group I joined was awesome but the network was already designed prior to me joining and they made it SO difficult when it should have been simple. The idea was to connect to my Office 365 Tenant I created but unfortunatley it didn't work out... The point is, take charge when you have to and lay out your vision! Our group's final assignment was to deploy active directory enviorment. Thank GOD for PowerShell! When all was said and one, we (OR I SHOULD SAY, "I") deployed each component of our DC using powershell. Although not recommended, our DC ran several server feautures: AD Domain Services, DNS, DHCP, ADFS, iSCSI, File Services, Print Server, Web ISS, Certificate Authority, WDS, and Remote Desktop Connection. Truth be told, it all worked great! I installed and configured each component using PowerShell. I had written a collection of scripts that automated various administrative tasks. With a simple script execution, I could create multiple or bulk users, assign group membership, create OU's. I could also create file shares, configure firewall rules and policies, and install additional software. This also gave me the option of managing all of our servers and workstations from one PowerShell terminal via "PSSession." When we were asked about email server, I went to connect to Azure (Office365 Admin Center) so I could show Exchange Server Online. It was clear that he did not understand any of this terminolgy. We (I mean "I") also built a couple LAMP servers. He said that we needed a actual SQL server installed. There were no specs, just a databasse server. Even though we did have SQL Server 2017 running on our DC3, I also showed him MySQL from the terminal (Ubuntu Server 18.04). He was lost... I also showed him front end via browser which displayed phpmyadmin. I logged in, showed him our databases we created. He said that had nothing to do with database servers stating, "That's just a php thing..." Our final project grade was in the high 90's. Needles to say, that was my last class at Alfred State! 

8 months later, PowerShell has advanced my career! As a systems administrator, I use PowerShell throughout the day. I often work with Office365 so I rely on scripts to automate tasks. After I create a new user on the on-premisis domain controller, I run a command that sycnrhonizes our ADFS server with Azure. Then I have the option of going in and seeing the newly created user in Azure AD. I also assign the licenses via powershell. I could keep going, but that is enough for now... These are the scripts I've used for the last 2 years. And automation isn't the only advantage. I also use PowerShell for Server/Client inventory, Windows 10 Deployment, troubleshooting, install software, security system audits, and penetration testing. If you're a newbie and interested in network administration, first learn Linux. Get cozy from the born again shell. Write some bash scripts. THEN learn powershell. You don't have too but going in that order only helps! 

Now I can't take credit but all sys admins need to have the ability to find reliable, dependable, secure source code an compile, run, execute. We can copy and paste all day long BUT if you do then you are lazy and need to find a new career. If this don't excite you then not cool. I've went through each script and added my own bells and whistles that will help accomodate me. I have formatted the scripts with my code to complete the objective I am hoping to accomplish. 

Feel free to dig deep and have fun! I will be adding more soon. Stay posted for additional Office365 scripts - Module Installation, Connection, Exchange, Licenses, Teams, Security and Compliance, Skype, and SharePoint. Hope to include DSC, NANO, HYPER-V, Clusters, and Load Balancing. 
